This is Jockelpontcast number 156.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick.
Good evening, I come, good evening.
Resistance. Why didn't you resist?
Today, those who have continued to live on and comfort,
scald those who suffered.
Yes, resistance should have begun right there
at the moment of the arrest itself.
But it did not begin.
During a daylight arrest,
there is always that brief and unique moment
when they are leading you,
either inconspicuously on the basis of a cowardly deal you have made
or else quite openly their pistols unholstered
through a crowd of hundreds of just such doomed innocence
as yourself.
You aren't gagged.
You really can and you really ought to cry out
to cry out you are being arrested.
That villains in disguise are trapping people
that arrest are being made on the strength of false denunciations.
That millions are being subjected to silent reprisals.
If many such outcry has been heard all over the city
in the course of a day,
would not our fellow citizens perhaps have begun to bristle?
And would arrest,
perhaps no longer have been so easy?
Instead,
not one sound comes from your parched lips.
And that passing crowd naively believes that you and your executioners
are friends out for a stroll.
I myself often had the chance to cry out.
So, why did I keep silent?
Why, in my last minute,
out in the open did I not attempt to enlighten the hood-winked crowd?
Why did I keep silent?
Every man always has a dozen glid little reasons
why he is right, not to sacrifice himself.
Some still have hopes of a favorable outcome to their case
and are afraid to ruin their chances by outcry.
So they keep silent.
And that right there is part of the opening of book one,
of the book, The Glug, Arkapelago,
by Solchonitson.
And I discussed it on the last podcast with Jordan Peterson.
But I didn't dig into the actual text very much because,
well, I had Jordan Peterson on here,
and I would rather just talk with him and allow him to talk
rather than read and delve into the text itself.
But the text is really good.
And I wanted to take today to go through,
at least, well, to go through today, part one of the Gulag Arkapelago.
And the version that I'm going through is not the abridged version,
but the full, unabridged version.
So, if you end up looking for some of these passages in the abridged version,
you might not find them.
And I'm only going to go through part one today.
And maybe over time we'll go through all seven parts
that are in three different volumes, massive volumes,
by the way, this one is 600 pages long.
Part two volume two, it looks like about another 600 pages,
and then volume three looks to be, I don't know, maybe four or 500 pages.
So, I think we're talking maybe 1500 to 2000 pages,
but it's a great read.
And like I said in the future,
if you get these, I'll say this.
In the future, yes, we will go through all the books.
So, if you want to get them now and read them,
then eventually you'll be able to roll through them with us.
And it's, as I said,
I mean, this book is a very powerful book,
but I said this one when I was talking to Jordan,
it's written and you can hear from even the opening there.
It's almost a conversation.
It's a very conversational writing that socialness and does.
And so it's pretty easy to read, because it's not,
it's just very, it sounds like somebody's telling you a story
is basically what it's like.
He's asking you questions, rhetorical questions.
He's interacting with you the reader.
So it's a pretty fun read.
It's not fun in the fact that you're reading about people
being trapped, tortured, murdered in a goolog,
but he does it in a light-hearted way,
if that's possible.
Is that possible?
I don't know if it's possible, but he seems to pull it off.
I mean, you can even see just what I just read.
You can see he's having a conversation with you about it.
You know, he's having a conversation.
So that's what it's like,
let's go back to the book and I'm going to pick up
in a section where he's kind of explaining.
And I talked about this with Jordan.
And by the way, yeah, so if you haven't listened to one
55 with Jordan Peterson, where we discuss some of this,
some of the ideas in this,
but we don't delve into the book too much.
And I'm actually going to cover those parts
or two little sections that we covered.
I'm going to cover them again today and kind of go in a little bit more.
But if you haven't listened to one 55,
let's listen to one 55,
and then come back and listen to this one.
This section of the book,
Solskja Nitsen is talking about the fact that he's a war hero
for all practical purposes.
And he's about to get rolled up and arrested by his brigade commander.
And he's talking about his brigade commander
and the situation that he's now going into.
10 days before,
I had led my own reconnaissance battery
almost intact out of the fire pocket
in which the 12 heavy guns of his artillery battalion had been left.
And now he had to renounce me
because of a piece of paper with a seal on it.
I knew instantly I had been arrested because of my correspondence
with a school friend and understood
from what direction to expect danger.
So he's been a fire pocket,
if you don't know what that means,
he was surrounded by the enemy.
And he was able to lead his troops out of their almost intact,
which means they took some casualties,
maybe lost some guys,
but he was able to lead his men out of there.
And yet he wrote a letter.
And he mentions earlier like what he says
and the letter basically says that the leadership
the extolans making some mistakes.
And guess what?
They screen those letters.
They read what he wrote.
And they arrested.
So,
war is hell.
And he talks a little bit about that here.
For three weeks,
the war had been going on inside Germany.
And all of us knew very well
that if the girls were German,
they could be raped and then shot.
This was almost a combat distinction.
Had they been Polish girls
or our own displaced Russian girls,
they could have been chased naked around the garden
and slapped on the behind
and amusement no more.
By the way,
that's just a little,
a little shot of what that war
between the Russians and the Germans
was the Russians and the Germans.
We talked about it in Stalingrad,
but we talked a little bit about what happened with civilians.
There's a little taste of what happens to civilians
in those situations.
It's a nightmare.
Going on,
the history,
this is chapter two,
the history of our sewage disposal system.
And this is where he expands
and explains sort of his view
of the prisons as a whole.
Back to the book.
It is well known that any organ,
withers away if it is not used.
Therefore,
if we know that the Soviet security organ
or organs
and they christen themselves with this viral word,
praised and exalted above all living things
have not died off even to the extent of one single tentacle,
but instead have grown new ones
and strengthened their muscles.
It is easy to deduce
that they have had constant exercise.
Through the sewer pipes,
the flow pulsed.
Sometimes the pressure was higher
than it had been projected,
sometimes lower,
but the prison sewers were never empty.
The blood,
the sweat,
and the urine into which we were
pulped,
pulsed through them continuously.
And he uses this term,
which I guess the Soviets
actually called the prison system organs.
And how the blood of the organs
was these people.
And this is something that I talked a little bit
about with Jordan.
Back to the book.
And even though Lenin at the end of 1917
in order to establish
strictly revolutionary order
demanded merciless suppression
of attempts at anarchy
on the part of drunkards,
who legans,
counter-revolutionaries
and other persons.
So that's how it starts off.
It starts off with that.
We're going out.
These are the people that need to be rounded up.
The people that need to be rounded up
are drunkards,
cool against counter-revolutionaries
and other persons.
That's where it starts.
And then it continues
and it goes on.
And he writes an essay,
Lenin writes an essay
called How to Organize,
How to Organize the Competition.
And he proclaimed,
this again,
this is Lenin proclaimed,
common,
the common,
united purpose of
purging the Russian land
of all kinds of harmful insects.
And the term insects.
And under the term insects,
he included not only all
class enemies,
but also workers
malingering at their work.
For example,
the type setters
of the Petrograd Party printing shops.
So you can see,
you can see this is starting to expand already.
It starts off just,
hey,
it's Hooligans and drunkards
and counter-revolutionaries.
Now all of a sudden it's getting towards
workers that are being lazy.
You're being a little bit lazy,
guess what?
You need to be,
you need to be arrested
and you're one of these insects.
And then this is how this grows.
And he goes through this massive list
of the people that need to,
that become insects.
And he describes him as insects.
So this included local self-governing bodies
in the provinces.
They were insects.
And people in the cooperative movements,
they were insects.
As were anyone that owned their own home
was an insect.
There were not a few insects
among the teachers in the gymnasians
and the church parish councils
were made up almost exclusively of insects.
All priests were insects.
And all those tall stoians who,
when they undertook to serve the Soviet government,
for example, on the railroads, refuse to sign
the required oath to defend the Soviet government
with gun in hand,
thereby showed themselves to be insects too.
The railroads were particularly important
for there were indeed many insects
hidden beneath the railroad.
And telegraphers, they were insects.
And he just goes on and on.
All Russian executive committee
of the Union of Railroad Workers
and other trade unions were also often filled
with insects hostile to the working class.
So this paragraph just goes on and on.
And basically what it would end up as
everyone's an insect.
That's how it ends up.
Everyone's an insect.
And therefore everyone must be arrested eventually.
Here's another expansion.
Here, this is the decree from the Council of People's
Commissars signed by Lenin on July 22nd, 1918.
Those guilty of selling or buying up or keeping for sale
in the way of business food products,
which have been placed under the monopoly of the Republic.
They deserve imprisonment for a term of not less than 10 years.
Combined with the most severe forced labor
and confiscation of all their property.
So if you operate on any kind of black market whatsoever,
10 years confiscation of everything you own,
that's where we're at right now.
1921 began with the Czech Order number 10
dated January 8th to intensified the repression of the
bourgeoisie.
Now when the civil war had ended,
repression was not to be reduced to but intensified.
So the civil war is over.
The revolutions over.
And you think, okay, the revolutions over,
we can back off a little bit.
No.
Now we're going to go harder.
In that same year,
the practice of arresting students began.
The arrests of members of all non-bulsific parties
were expanded and systematized.
Not one citizen of the former Russian state
who had ever joined a party other than the
Bolshevik party could avoid his fate.
Men of religion were an inevitable part of every annual catch.
And their silver locks gleamed in every cell,
and in every prisoner transport on route
to the Solvetsty Islands.
And those are prisons.
Monks and nuns whose black habits had been a distinct
of future of old Russian life were intensively rounded up
on every hand placed under arrest and sent into exile.
And the war was not a war.
As Tanya Kodovich wrote,
you can pray freely,
but just so God alone can hear.
So you're allowed to pray,
but only God can hear it.
Meaning don't let anyone else hear it.
And by the way, because you wrote that,
she got a ten year sentence for that.
All persons convicted of religious activity received
teners, which is the ten year sentence.
So you can see how this just gets completely out of control.
And one thing about this book is it's not really chronological.
So it goes through whole, like this first chapters,
it goes through from like the revolution all the way through after the war.
And then you go through,
it's not chronological.
It just kind of jumps around a little bit.
So you have to, you kind of have to just pay attention all the time
to what time frame he's talking about.
Luckily he gives a lot of dates on when things are happening.
For instance, here back to the book,
this therapy continued full speed from 1927 on
and immediately exposed to the proletariat,
all the causes of our economic failures and surrogages.
Okay, let's pay attention to this.
All the causes of our economic failures and surrogages.
So obviously Russia's going through all kinds of problems at this time.
And here's what caused them.
There was wrecking and wrecking is their term for basically a saboteur.
Someone that's causing the problems is a record.
There was wrecking in the people's commissariat of railroad roads.
That was why it was hard to get aboard the train
and why there were interruptions in supplies.
There was wrecking in the Moscow electric power system
and interruptions in power.
There was wrecking in the oil industry hence the shortage of carousine.
Carousine.
There was wreckage and textile, hence nothing for a working man to wear.
Where?
In the coal industry, there was colossal wrecking, hence no heat.
In the metallur in the metallurgy, defense, machinery, shipbuilding,
chemical, mining, golden platinum industries, and irrigation,
everywhere there were these poss-filled boils of wrecking.
Animals with slide rules were on all sides.
So, they have problems in the country.
And it's what the party is saying.
Hey, this is because we've got these wreckers, these saboteurs everywhere.
Animals with slide rules.
The GPU puffed and panted in its efforts to grab off and drag off all the wreckers.
In the capitals and in the Providence, provinces, the GPU Collegiums,
and the proletarian courts kept hard at work,
sifting through the viscous sewage.
And every day the workers gasped to learn,
and sometimes they didn't learn from the papers of new viral deeds.
So you had the state press putting out all this is what's happening.
These are the wreckers.
Every industry, every factory, and every handicraft artell
had to find wreckers in its ranks.
A new snow sooner had they begun to look, then they found them.
Continues on, when not long afterward, the new people's commissar of the railroads,
ordered that average loads should be increased and even doubled and then tripled.
And for this discovery, received order of linen along with other others of our leaders.
The malicious engineers who protested became known as Limiters.
They raised the outcry that this was too much and would result in the breakdowns of the rolling stock.
And they were rightly shot for their lack of faith in the possibilities of socialist transport.
So that right there sums up a lot.
Because you're in this situation and there's some buddy at the top that's saying,
oh, we need to transport more stuff on the railroads.
Cool, just load them up more.
And the actual engineers are saying, they can't handle that much weight.
Hey, they can't handle that much weight.
It's going to ruin the trains.
It's going to break the trains.
And what do they do?
Shoot them.
Shoot them in the back.
Shoot them in the back of the head.
Because, and they call them Limiters. They gave them a name.
You're a limiter.
You just don't want to make this happen.
That's your problem.
And there's a, there's a great passage that I read in a book that I'm going to read right now.
And this book that I'm going to pull a real quick passage from,
it's a book called Basic Economics Written by a famous, a very famous economist.
I should say named Thomas Sal.
And he's just talking about, he's talking about how they tried to regulate prices in the Soviet Union.
And another way to set the prices on everything.
And he's, and it says this. So this is from, this is the role of prices as the name of the chapter in Basic Economics by Thomas Sal.
The significance of free market prices in the allocation of resources can be seen more clearly by looking at situations where prices are not allowed to perform this function.
During the era of the government directed economy of the Soviet Union, for example,
prices were not set by supply and demand, but by central planners who sent resources to their various uses by direct commands supplemented by prices that the planners raised or lowered as they saw fit.
And now he goes into this part where he takes these two Soviet economists and they described a situation in which their government raised the price it would pay for mole skin.
Leading hunters to sell more of them. And here's that description. And this is these two Soviet economists.
Schmell-Evan Pop-Off who described the situation where the government raised the price it paid for mole skins.
Here we go.
State purchases increased.
And now all the distribution centers are filled with these pelts.
Industry is unable to use them all. And they often rot in warehouses before they can be processed.
The Ministry of Light Industry has already requested, go scotch them in.
The Ministry of Light Industry has already requested twice to lower purchasing prices, but the question has not been decided yet.
And this is not surprising.
Its members are too busy to decide. They have no time. Besides setting the prices on these pelts, they have to keep track of another 24 million prices.
So that's what happens. And that's what's going on.
You've got somebody trying to essentially, it's the opposite of decentralized command.
You've got people trying to figure out what a pelts, what this mole skin pelts should cost.
And what happens is when the government raises the price they'll pay for it. What do all the people do?
They go and gather more of these pelts.
And now there's no restock of them. And they try and get them to lower the prices.
So people won't stop. We'll stop turning them in. But they can't do it quick enough because they got 24 million other prices that they got a set for the government.
So that in a nutshell is why all these problems are one of the major reasons why all these problems are occurring.
And whenever somebody tries to resist what commands are being given, they're getting shot.
Limitors.
Yeah. And this is when I talk about a little bit with Jordan in September 1930, the famine organizers were tried with a great hue and cry.
They were the ones there they are.
There were 48 records in the food industry.
Stalin carried out the first such effort in connection with the trial of the famine organizers.
And how could it not succeed when everyone was starving in Boutnus Russia?
And everyone was always looking about and asking where did all our dear bread get to?
Therefore, before the court verdict, the workers and employees raffly voted for the death penalty for the scoundrels on trial.
It was the newspaper March of Millions.
And the roar rose outside the windows of the courtroom. Deaf death death death.
So for these types of reasons, for this centralized command doesn't work.
Not to mention what they did took the farms away from the people that actually knew how to farm.
There's complete famine.
And they're blaming it on the 48 people that were sabotored inside the agriculture industry.
Completely insane.
And this one I read with Jordan, I'm going to read it again.
Russian in Russian, a cool act is a miserly dishonest rural trader who grows rich, not by his own labor, but through someone else's through usury and operating as a middleman.
In every locality, even before the revolution, such cool acts could be numbered on one's fingers.
And the revolution totally destroyed their basis of activity.
And then, consequently, after 1917, by a transfer of meaning, the name Koolak began to be applied to all those who in any way hired workers, even if it was only when they were temporarily short of working hands in their own families.
So a Koolak started off as someone that was trying to, you know, rip people off.
But then they just started applying it to everyone.
Anyone that hired someone was a Koolak.
And it has a derogatory tone to it.
Continuing on, but the inflation of this scathing term Koolak proceeded relentlessly, and by 1930, all strong peasants in general were being so called.
All peasants, strong and management, strong and worker, even strong merely in convictions.
The term Koolak was used to smash the strength of the peasantry.
Beyond this, in every village, there were people who in one way or another had personally gotten in the way of the local activists.
This was the perfect time to settle accounts with them of jealousy, envy, and insult.
A new word was needed for all those victims as a class, and it was born.
By this time, it had no social or economic content whatsoever, but had a marvelous sound.
A person who had a good time with a new word was called POT Koolak, a person who had the Koolak.
In other words, I consider you a comp and a comp of the enemy.
Now, what's interesting about this, and I had a bunch of people point this out.
This is when we take words, powerful words, and we start to throw them at people and we use them universally.
That's going to cause a problem.
And you can see it all the time right now in social media and in the, yeah, I guess you see it primarily in social media, from like far left extremists and far right extremists.
To the far right, anybody that's to the left to them is like a communist.
To the far left, anybody that's to the right of them is a racist or a Nazi.
And they throw those words around, and those words that you shouldn't use those words.
It's like using Koolak. Like that's not the person that higher someone is in a Koolak, right?
It like that doesn't work.
So we escalate these terms, and that's not a healthy thing to do.
I mean, I think it was when, yeah, I mean, when Jordan Peterson gets compared to Adolf Hitler, right?
They compare Jordan Peterson to Adolf Hitler.
Come on.
He doesn't like some of Jordan Peterson's ideas.
Yeah.
Okay. That's cool.
Don't call him Adolf Hitler.
Yeah.
Like that's just not realistic.
It's not helpful to, you know, or people don't like his ideas or whatever, like for a specific reason, you know, rather than identify the reason, they just like package them up and put a ugly bow tie on it.
It wouldn't be like, yeah, I hate you kind of think.
And the right, you know, if you think about during McCarthyism, right, it was, hey, anti-american, you're anti-american, you're a communist.
It was like, they were flagging people like that.
So both sides can do this. In this case, it's, in this case, it's the, it's the communist, the escalating these terms.
We've seen the right do it. We see the left do it, not a smart thing to do. Don't throw those terms out, where they don't belong.
Yeah.
Talk to about this a little bit with Jordan. There was a wave.
And then we talked about wave. He talked about waves of people that would flow into the prisons.
And there's not all these different ways. He talks about dozens and dozens of different waves.
There was a wave for snipping ears. The nighttime snipping of individual ears of grain in the field, a totally new type of agricultural activity, a new type of harvesting.
The wave of those caught doing this was not small.
It included many tens of thousands of peasants, many of them not even adults, but boys, girls and small children,
whose elders had sent them out at night to snip because they had no hope of receiving anything from the collective farm for their daytime labor.
For this bitter and not very productive occupation and extreme of poverty to which the peasants had not been driven even in surfdom,
the courts handed out a full measure.
Ten years for what ranked as an especially dangerous theft of socialist property.
Again, that's why I say this book is kind of like to read.
He's kind of funny, right?
And especially dangerous theft of socialist properties, talking about taking a one ear of grain.
Is he saying that like on his own kind of thing? Or is that what the people would say?
That's the thing.
That's the authorities.
You stole communist property, socialist property, you stole it.
And you must be destroyed in ten years because you took a little piece of grain.
Yes, like if you get a, I don't know, J walking ticket or something.
Hey, you committed a crime ear criminal, kind of thing.
Yeah, you can just call someone a criminal.
Yeah.
Usually has even though technically, you know, they're not kind of wrong, you know?
Yeah, I got rolled up in Vegas.
Yeah.
I got rolled up in Vegas.
I was with Sarge.
Sure.
We were crossing one of the big streets in Vegas.
And I had to grab something or I dropped something last time.
I sure were doing something.
And the walking light went red.
Yeah.
But the cars weren't going yet.
And Sarge had already walked across.
So I just kind of jogged across like, you know, before and then the cars started moving.
Yeah.
Squad car lights.
Then 10 seconds later, four squad cars.
I don't know if they thought I was somebody else.
So I'm there, you know, on on the curb face down.
No, no, no.
Yeah, face down.
Sarge is videoing it.
He's laughing at me.
Yes, I was a criminal.
Wait, so you, but what then did, what they do?
Did you get a rest?
No, they gave me a ticket.
They gave me a ticket.
Yeah.
Well, I guess criminal, right?
What's a criminal?
And they probably thought, they probably thought, oh, we're going to roll up this drunk
80 and I'm totally so.
I was up there for the UFC.
You know, I was up there with a fighter.
I don't, we were probably going to, you know, cut weight or something with a fighter.
Yeah.
And then I am getting rolled up.
Roll that crap.
Just a roll that's for Jay Hawking.
For the purpose.
They must have thought I was somebody else.
Well, yeah, I mean, you're going to be a, you know, and it's like, hey, this guy looks like he could
be a travel or something.
Jay Hawking.
You know, obviously a criminal.
Yeah.
But the, I guess when you think about a criminal, right, criminal, what's, what is that?
Is that like a,
Well, someone who commits a margin of your, in this case, what they'd say is, oh, you were blocking the
transportation of socialist property.
Therefore, you, that's a crime against the state.
You're 10 years.
That's the same.
That's exactly what we're talking about.
Yeah.
It's like when people tell you, you're from Jay Hawking.
10 years were going out and clipping a single grain of, of a single, a, a, a, a, a year of corn or
grain.
Yeah.
Getting 10 years for that.
And you're, your 12 years older, whatever.
Yeah.
And you're going to get against the state.
It's like when people throw around the word trees and, you know, you know, you know,
how like when when people get into political debates,
oh, around, oh, that's treason.
Yeah.
That's, you're right.
There's people throw that word around when it shouldn't be thrown around.
Be careful.
When you, when you commit treason, that's death.
Yeah.
It's a big deal, man.
So people say, uh,
Oh, what, what's a good example of that's treason.
Yeah.
Treason's a big deal.
You shouldn't throw that word around unless you're thinking somebody needs a death penalty.
Yeah.
So you guys have a good example.
Check.
Back to the book, paradoxically enough,
every act of the all penetrating eternally wakeful organs over a span of many years
was based solely on one article of the 140 articles of the non-general division of the criminal
criminal code of 1926.
So this is where all this crap came from.
They wrote this criminal code of 1926.
And the including the great powerful abundant highly ramified multi-form wide sweeping article
58, which summed up the world not so much through the exact terms of its sections,
as in their extended dialectical interpretation.
In all truth, there is no step, thought, action or lack of action under the heavens,
which could not be punished by the heavy hand of article 58.
The article itself could not be worded in such broad terms,
but it proved possible to interpret it this broadly.
Article 58 was not in that division of the code dealing with the political crimes
and nowhere was it categorized as political.
No, it was included with crimes against public order and organized gangsterism
in a division of crimes against the state.
And then he goes through all these various sections of article 58, which had 14 sections.
In section one, we learned that any action, and according to Article 6 of the criminal code,
any absence of action directed toward the weakening of state power,
was considered to be counter-revolutionary, broadly interpreted this turned out to include
the refusal of a prisoner in camp to work when in the state, when in a state of starvation, and exhaustion.
That was a weakening of state power, and it was punished by execution.
Because if you're in prison and you're starving, but you're not doing the work you're supposed to do,
you're doing something that's hurting the state.
So you need to die.
This is, you can't, I was having trouble, and I think even Jordan,
like we were trying to get explained that this is like a sick comedy.
Like we kept saying back and forth to each other, we're like, you can't make this up.
You can't make this up.
Like you can't make that up.
And this is real.
Yeah, this is a sick comedy.
That's an interesting, yet accurate way to put it.
It's like, you know, I can't think of an example, you know how someone will like,
he'll say, I don't know, a cable actually, you know what it was?
It was like some cable commercial, they do this in a funny way, a comedy way.
They'll say, hey, don't get cable,
because if, and then they'll say like, what does he say?
So something like, yeah, if you don't listen to your parents, you don't do your homework.
If you don't do your homework, you don't get a good job.
If you don't get a good job, you know, and it's this whole thing.
You can then crack house.
Yeah, so don't end up in a crack house.
You know, kind of thing and they related to the thing.
And it's like, I see what you did there, you know, and each one,
but it's like, you're just being funny.
Like, obviously that's not that, you know,
but they're just drawing on these parallels to everything.
So this one, they must be the same.
You know, kind of thing, you know, like, yeah, if you get, if you can't so
people, I forget how it goes, but well, to your point, this is that kind of,
this sounds like you just being that crazy, but this is real.
When our soldiers were sentenced to only 10 years for allowing themselves to be taken prisoner,
action injurious to the Soviet military might,
this was humanitarian to the point of being illegal,
according to the Stalinist code, they all should have been shot upon their return home.
So they're saying, you know what?
The people that were allowed the Soviet soldiers that allowed themselves to be captured,
they only got 10 years, which is actually kind of illegal because they should have been shot.
The article 19 of the criminal code, via intent.
In other words, no treason had taken place, but the interrogator envisioned an intention
to betray and that was enough to justify a full term.
This same is actual. So if I just think you had the intent, that's good enough.
You're getting 10 years.
Section three was assisting in any way where by any means a foreign state at war.
This is action made it possible to condemn any citizen who had been in occupied territory,
whether he had nailed on the peel of a German soldier's shoe or sold him a bunch of radishes.
You get your tanner right there.
There's these two things, PSH, which is suspicion of espionage and then an SH,
which is on proven aspen espionage, you can charge someone with unproven espionage.
What does that even mean?
Hey, we're just, you know, we're your guilty for unproven.
That's like your guilty of unproven murder.
What does that mean?
It's not proven, but that's what your guilty of, and that's why you're going to die.
Or maybe it's the kind of, you know, how here, you'll say, like, hey, he's, he's in a ledger,
you know, before you're proven in the court of the lock, maybe you're in that window.
No, no, no.
The same thing.
Even espionage, you're going to go to prison for 10 years for it.
Section eight covered terror.
Terror was construed in a very broad sense, not simply a matter of putting bombs on their
governors' characters, but for example, smashing the face of a personal enemy,
if he was an activist in the party or the police, that was terror.
And then he starts talking about section 10, which is propaganda or agitation containing an appeal
for the overflow subverting or weakening of the Soviet power, and equally the dissemination
or preparation or possession of literary materials of similar content.
So any, if you're running propaganda, you can get trouble.
But here we go.
The term preparation of literary materials covered every letter, note, or private diary,
even when only the original document existed.
So anything that you write down is subject.
Well, that's why he went to prison for a letter.
The real law underlying the rest, all those years, was the assignment of quotas.
The norm set, the planned allocations, every city, every district, every military unit,
was assigned a specific quota of arrest to be carried out by a stipulated time.
That's like when cops get the quota for the speeding ticket.
Yeah, that's when you get the ticket for the only document.
38 and a 35.
Is that true, though?
Sometimes it is.
I don't know.
I thought it was true, but I have no idea.
Is that just a myth?
You know, how like people they did, they're just mad because they got to take it.
You know, you're like all these people.
You're going to be too cool to go.
But it's not even real.
You know, like, it doesn't have a real thing.
I have no idea.
All right, it could be a mess that I just believed.
Yeah, you know, because you've probably got that ticket when you're going to
38 and the 35.
And we need it.
That's why I'm questioning it.
I did get pulled over a few months ago, but.
Why, bro?
If you tinted windows.
No, I was going too fast in this area.
Yeah. Oh, straight up speeding. Yeah. But you got off. They give you a break.
Yeah.
Because they they recognize you.
No.
They're little.
They're okay.
Nice.
You did.
I think.
Uh.
Check.
Back to the book, Piles of Victims, Hills of Victims.
Here's some other people got arrested.
And Electrician had a high tension line break in his sector.
587. That's the article.
20 years.
A plumber turned off the loudspeaker in his room every time the endless letters to Stalin were being read.
His next door neighbor denounced him.
Where are we?
Where is that neighbor today?
He got SOE socially dangerous element eight years.
So she's looking.
By the end of number 1941, becoming bigger in the autumn, the wave of the encircled was surging.
And again, the waves talking about waves of prisoners that are showing up.
The waves of the encircled were surging in.
These were the defenders of their native land.
The very same warriors whom the cities had seen sent off to the front with bouquets and bands a few months before.
Who had then sustained the heaviest tank assaults of the Germans and in general chaos.
And through no fault of their own had spent a certain time as isolated units, not in enemy imprisonment, not at all.
But in temporary encirclement and later had broken out.
You understand what that means?
That means they're surrounded by the enemy.
They get captured by the enemy.
They get surrounded for a little while.
And then they break out and they get back to friendly lines.
And instead of being given a brotherly embrace on their return,
such as every other army in the world would have given them.
Instead of being given a chance to rest up to visit their families and then return to their units,
they were held on suspicion, disarmed, deprived of rights,
and taken away in groups to identification points and screening centers where officers of the special branches started interrogating them,
distrusting not only their every word, but their very identity.
Traders of the motherland under 581B.
But at first until the standard penalty was finally determined, they got less than 10 years.
You can't imagine that people would go along.
We can't imagine that people go along with this.
The level of fear that you have to have as a nation and as a people to go along with that right there,
are frontline troops were surrounded by the enemy.
They managed to escape and get back and now we're going to put them on trial and put them in prison.
It's insanity.
Next chapter talks about interrogation.
Going to the book of the intellectuals in the plays of Czechoslovakia,
who spent all their time guessing what would happen in 2030 or 40 years had been told that in 40 years,
interrogation by torture would be practiced in Russia that prisoners would have their skull squeezed with iron rings,
that a human being would be lowered into an acid bath, that they would be trussed up naked to be bitten by ants and bedbugs,
that a ramrod heated over a prime stove would be thrust up their anal canal, the secret brand,
that a man's genitals would be slowly crushed beneath the toe of a jackboot,
and that in the luckiest possible circumstances prisoners would be tortured by being kept from sleeping for a week by thirst and by being beaten to a bloody pulp.
Not one of Czechoslov's plays would have gotten to its end because all the heroes would have gone off to insane asylum.
If the intellectuals in the plays of Czechoslovakia spent all their time guessing what would happen in 2030 or 40 years had been told that in 40 years,
interrogation by torture would be practiced in Russia.
That prisoners would have their skull squeezed within iron rings,
that a human being would be lowered into an acid bath, that they would be trussed up naked to be bitten by ants and bedbugs,
that a ramrod heated over a prime stove would be thrust up their anal canal.
That a man's genitals would be slowly crushed beneath the toe of a jackboot,
and that in the luckiest possible circumstances prisoners would be tortured by being kept from sleeping for a week by thirst,
and by being beaten into a bloody pulp.
Not one of Czechoslov's plays would have gotten to its end because all the heroes would have gone off to insane asylum.
This is horrible.
So they have these savage interrogations in torture, continuing on.
The time-allotted for investigation was not used to unravel the crime.
In 95 cases out of 100 to exhaust, wear down, weaken, and render helpless the defendant so that he would want to end it at any cost.
Then he talks about some of the methods that we're used.
I mean, talk about some of the torture, and these were just some of the kind of the basic, the baseline abuse that you're going to get.
You're going to get kept from sleep. You're going to get persuasion.
They'd say, look, you're going to get prison terminal matter what happens.
But if you resist, you'll grow right here in prison. You'll lose your health.
But if you go to camp, you'll have fresh air and sunlight, so why not sign this paper right now?
They do that. They do psychological contrast.
You know, good cop bad cop humiliation, extreme confusion, intimidation.
They tell them we've got hard labor camps. Now if you confess, you go to an easy camp.
But if you're stoner, stuber, you'll get 25 years in handcuffs in the mines.
They'd lie, of course. They'd play on the affections for those. One loved.
We'll arrest your daughter and lock her in a cell with syphiletics.
That's that one that they always throw. They're going to break, oh, they can't break you, cool.
Guess what they're going to do to your daughter, guess what they're going to do to your wife, guess what they're going to do to your son.
Now he has a great paragraph, and I talked about this a little bit with Jordan.
But it's a reflecting on his behavior. And this is when he started talking, and again, I skipped through a lot of the interrogation.
You have to read the book. You have to read the whole book. And you have to really jump into that.
I hit the high wave tops of it. And this section he's talking about the guards, right?
The people that he called him blue caps, these are people that were the guards, people that were processing you through the Gulogs.
And much like Jordan kind of talks about seeing himself as the bad guy, right? The perpetrator.
As opposed to always seeing like, oh, everyone thinks I wouldn't do that. I'd be one of these victims.
He, uh, solstion, it's an seize himself in a way he reflects on the way he behaved actually as an officer, as a privileged officer in the Russian army.
And this is, this is such a great little section about leadership, because it tells you what not to do as a leader.
So here we go, and this is a great start off to this. It starts off here, back to the book, pride grows in the human heart, like,
a large, on a pig. I tossed out orders to my subordinates that I would not allow them to question, convince that no orders could be wiser.
Let's check. Number one right there. These are things not to do as a leader. I throw out orders to my subordinates without letting them question them.
Convinced in his own mind that they hate my orders and the best orders. Completely wrong.
Next, even at the front where one might have thought death made equals of a soul, my power soon convinced me that I was a superior human being.
Wrong. You're not better than your troops. Next, seated there, I heard them out as they stood a detention.
I interrupted them. I issued commands. I addressed fathers and grandfather's with the familiar downgrading form of address, while they, of course, addressed me formally.
I sent them out to repair wire under shell fire so that my superiors would not reproach me.
I ate my officer's ration of butter with rolls without giving a thought as to why I had a right to do it and why the rank and file soldiers did not.
So, hey, we're out there in the field. You're going to eat whatever shoe leather, and I'm over here eating my butter with rolls.
I, of course, had a personal servant assigned to me in polite terms and orderly, who my badgered one way or another, in order to look after my person and prepare my meal separately from the soldiers.
I forced my soldiers to put their backs into it and dig me a special dugout at every new bivouac and to haul the heaviest beams to support it so that I would be as comfortable and as safe as possible.
And, wait a minute, yes, my battery always had a guard house too, meaning a little prison cell. What kind of guard house could there be in the woods?
It was a pit, of course, although it had a roof on it.
It talks about imprisoning some, uh, Vishkov was imprisoned there for losing his horse and pop off for maltreating his car bean.
Yes, just a moment, I can remember more. They sold me a map case out of a German hide, not human, but from a car seat.
But I didn't have a strap for it, and I was unhappy about that. Then all of a sudden, they saw some partisan commas are from the local district party committee wearing just the right kind of strap, and they took it away from him.
We are the army. We have seniority.
Finally, I coveted that scarlet box, and I remember how they took it away and got it for me.
That's what shoulder boards do to a human being.
So, when you get rank, when you put on those shoulder boards, keep your ego in check.
Don't act like that. Then believe me, I mean, I saw plenty of people like act like that in the military, and they were hated by their troops.
Continuing on. So, let the reader who expects this book to be a political ex-Posay, slam its covers shut right now.
If it were only also simple, if only there were evil people, somewhere in cityously committing evil deeds, and it will necessary only to separate them from the rest of us and destroy them.
But the line dividing good and evil cuts through the heart of every human being, and who is willing to destroy a piece of his own heart.
So, if you're not careful, you got that evil in you.
During the life of any heart, this line keeps changing.
Place sometimes it's squeezed one way by an exuberant evil, and sometimes it shifts to allow enough space for good to flourish.
One and the same human being is at various ages, and under various circumstances, a totally different human being.
At times he is close to being a devil at times to samehood, but his name doesn't change.
And to that name, we ascribe the whole lot good and evil.
And that's a line that you hear Jordan Peterson read that line a lot, or say that line a lot.
The line dividing good and evil cuts through the heart of every human being.
So, we all got a little piece of darkness in our hearts that you need to watch out for.
Continuing on a little bit on that theme, the trouble lies in the way these classic evil doers are pictured.
They recognize themselves as evil doers, and they know their souls are black, and they reason I cannot live unless I do evil.
So, I'll set my father against my brother, I'll drink the victim's sufferings until I'm drunk with them.
But no, that's not the way it is.
To do evil a human being must first of all believe that what he is doing is good, or else that it's a well-considered act in conformity with natural law.
Fortunately, is in the nature of the human being to speak a to seek a justification for his actions ideology.
That is what gives evil doing its long, sought justification, and gives the evil doer the necessary steadfastness and determination.
That is the social theory which helps to make his acts seem good instead of bad in his own eyes and others eyes, so that he won't hear reproaches and curses, but we'll receive praise and honors.
That was how agents of the inquisition fortified their wills by invoking Christianity, the conquerors of foreign lands by extoling the grandeur of the motherland, the colonizers by civilization, the Nazis by race, the Jacobians, early and late by equality brotherhood and the happiness of future generations.
Thanks to ideology, the 20th century was faded to experience evil doing on a scale calculated in the millions.
This cannot be denied or passed over nor suppressed.
How then do he derensists that evil doers do not exist and who was it that destroyed these millions without evil doers?
There would have been no archipelago.
So this is again something that we see a lot today when people get on and we see it in the past.
Obviously he gave all the examples right there.
I mean the inquisition we haven't covered down on the podcast yet, but we probably need to because that was a damn nightmare.
And it was a nightmare with people that were saying, hey, this is for the good of Christianity.
And you can go right on down the list when people make doing people do evil.
They have this ideological oftentimes have this ideological backing behind the doing it for this great cause.
And I got a book in the in the queue that's probably going to get done, which we're going to approach this thing right here.
Evidently evil doing also has a threshold magnitude.
Yes, a human being has a taste in Bob's back and forth between good and evil all his life.
He slips falls back, clambers up, repents, things begin to darken again.
But just so long as the threshold of evil doing is not crossed, the possibility of returning remains.
And he himself is still within reach of our hope.
But when through the density of evil actions, the result, either of their own extreme degree of absoluteness of his power,
he suddenly crosses that threshold.
He has left humanity behind and without perhaps the possibility of return.
So there's some situations where people just go, they're not coming back. They're just going to do evil.
That's the way it's going to be.
And I have a book in the queue right now that we're probably going to do that will explore that departure from being able to return.
Continuing on, the only soldier in the world who cannot surrender is the soldier of the world's one and only red army.
That's what it says in our military statutes.
And cannot surrender. No surrender.
There's war there is death, but there is no surrender. What does discovery?
What it means is go and die. We will go on living.
And if you lose your legs, yet man is to return from captivity on crutches, we will convict you.
And he mentions the lending gratter, Ivanov, commander of a machine gun, platoon in the finish war,
who lost both legs, and was imprisoned.
Incidentally, it is very naive to say, what for?
In other words, what for? Why are they going to prison? No time have governments been more lost.
They never imprisoned people and executed them for having done something.
They imprisoned and executed them to keep them from doing something.
They imprisoned all those POWs, of course, not for treason to the motherland,
because it was absolutely clear even to a fool that only the vlas off men could be accused of treason,
which is a group that we'll talk about them a little bit, but there was a general named vlas off that actually,
became a leader of Russian soldiers fighting against Russia alongside the Nazis.
So he said, yeah, those guys were traders against, but the normal POWs and normal soldiers,
they were traders, back to the book, they were imprisoned all of them to keep them from telling their fellow villagers about Europe.
But the eye doesn't see the heart doesn't grieve for.
And just because these people had seen what it was like, you gotta go to prison. You know too much.
You could have acquired a very harmful spirit through living freely among Europeans.
And if you had not been afraid to escape and continue to fight, it meant you were a determined person and thus doubly dangerous in the motherland.
Think about that.
Because you had the courage to fight on and escape and get back, that means you're a courageous person and you're even more of a threat.
Because you know how they live.
Totally backwards.
Now, like I said, this guy flas-off,
that he was surrounded and wanted to retreat and got told no.
And his army was basically most of it was wiped out.
And then he was kind of wandering and escaped somewhat and they joined up.
When they were captured, joined up with some other troops that other Russian troops that were now pissed off, right?
That they didn't, they, you, you wouldn't allow us to surrender, you wouldn't allow us to break out, you wouldn't allow us to leave.
So they're pissed at Stalin.
And so then they turned and these vlas-off guys ended up fighting and I'm sure we'll do a book on these guys at some point.
But you know, he became, he became the leader on Dray vlas-off.
And they fought and they fought hard because they know they knew that they had no.
And they weren't going to live if they were captured.
And in fact, solstionitz says, when we captured them, we shot them as soon as the first intelligible Russian word came from their mouths.
This just straight up. That's what we're doing.
Oh, you speak Russian? Cool. That means you're a vlas-off man. You're done.
The term vlas-off-ite in our country has the same force as the word sewage.
We feel we are derving our mouths merely by pronouncing it. And therefore no one dears dares utter a sentence with vlas-off-ite in its subject.
But that is no way to write history.
Now, a quarter of a century later, when most of them had perished in camps and those who have survived or living out their lives in the far north,
I would like to issue a reminder through these pages that this was a phenomenon totally unheard of in haul the whole history of the world.
That several hundred thousand young men aged 20 to 30 took up arms against their fatherland as allies of its most evil enemy.
Right, seeing this never happened hundreds of thousands of, there was hundreds of thousands of these vlas-off-trups.
Hundreds of thousands of them. How do you get hundreds of thousands of men who are in the military? Like, okay, we get a trader, we get five traders, hundreds of thousands.
And he says, back the book, perhaps there is something to ponder here, who is more to blame those youths or the gray fatherland.
One cannot explain this treason biologically. It had to have had a social cause, because, as the old proverb said,
Well fed horses don't rampage.
Then picture yourself a field in which starved, neglected, crazed horses are rampaging back and forth.
Continuing on, there is a simple truth which one can learn only through suffering. In war, not victories are blessed, but defeats.
Governments need victories and the people need defeats. Victory gives rise to the desire for more victories, but after defeat, it is freedom that men desire and usually attain.
A people need defeat, just as an individual needs suffering and misfortune, they compel the deepening of the inner life and generate a spiritual upsurge.
That's an interesting concept. That's what Jill Rogan talking about. You need to have some struggle, right?
You need to have something to get after. And, and, and, social nets and saying, people in a country need that same thing.
They need that struggle. They want that struggle. And, this is, again, this is when we spent a little bit of time on with Jordan.
And, this is when when one of social nets and friends in the prison, Valentin said, they were expecting amnesty.
They're expecting to be set free. And, here we go back to the book, because we dried ourselves off, Valentin said to me,
Rear-sherently, intimately, well, all right, we are still young. We are going to live a long time yet. The main thing is not to make a misstep now.
We are going to a camp. And, we'll not say one word to anything, so they won't plaster new terms on us. We'll work honestly and keep our mouths shut.
And, he really believed in his program, that naive little kernel of grain of caught between Stalin's millstones.
He really had his hopes set on it, and I was talking about amnesty. One wanted to agree with him to serve out the term coesely and then expunge from one's head what one had lived through.
But, I had begun to sense a truth inside myself, if in order to live, it is necessary not to live, then what's it all for?
And, of course, Jordan and I got in the big, long discussion about playing the game. And, yeah, I mean, I think we both agreed that there's times where you have to play the game.
And, if you don't, well, you'll end up in a worse position. So, we started talking a little bit about these kangaroo courts that went on.
And, here's one of the judges makes the statement, we are not guided by laws, but by our revolutionary conscience. So, what does that mean?
That means we just make up whatever the hell we want to make up. Yeah, whatever we're going to make up, that's what we're going to do.
And, in this book, part one of Volume One, he spends a lot of time talking about these multiple cases.
It goes through basically it's like court dramas. And he spells them out pretty good. And there's like dialogue back and forth between the accuser and the defendants and, you know, the uproar from the crowd.
And it's like a multiple court dramas. One of them, the Moscow Church trial April 26 to May 7, 1922.
There were 17 defendants, including arch priests and laymen accused of disseminating the patriarchs proclamation. The charge was more important than the question of surrendering or not surrendering church valuables.
And the presiding judge says, do you consider the state's law obligatory or not?
And the patriarch says, yes, I recognize them to the extent that they do not contradict the rules of piety.
Comrade Beck, the presiding judge was astounded, which, you know, the last analysis is more important to you, the laws of the church or the point of view of the Soviet government.
Again, this is all spelled out.
But it ends up May 7, the sentence was pronounced of the 17 defendants 11 word to be shot.
Another massive show trial against the engineers that were, again, this goes back to the idea that they were considered records.
And they had these massive show trials. And here were some of the results of the show trials where they, when they sent in these guys to massive prison terms or sentence and to death, thus it was attained with eight horse traction all the goals of the trial.
One, all the shortages in the country, including famine called lack of clothing, chaos and obvious stupidities were all blamed on the engineer records.
The people were terrified by the threat of imminent intervention from abroad and were therefore prepared for new sacrifices. Three left this circles in the west were warned of the intrigues of their governments and for the solidarity of the engineers was destroyed.
All the intelligence was given a good scare and left divided within itself.
Everyone of these show trials, well, if it wasn't for the fact that people would be imprisoned or executed after the show trials, it would be a lot of them.
They seem like kangaroo courts, they seem comical when you read them.
Next chapter called The Supreme Measure, which is about capital punishment, capital punishment has an up and down history in Russia.
In the 20 central provinces of Russia in a period of 16 months from June 1918 to October 1919, more than 6,000 persons were shot, which is to say more than 1,000 per month.
The revolution had hastened to rename everything so that everything would seem new.
Thus, the death penalty was re-crisioned as the supreme measure.
No longer a punishment, but a means of social defense.
So they're executing. A lot of people, of course, they're calling it the supreme measure. They refer to as social defense.
We're just to say we're just defending ourselves.
Back to the book, and what kind of evil doers with these condemned men's were, did so many plotters and troublemakers come from?
Among them, for example, were six collective farmers who were guilty of the following crime.
After they had finished mowing the collective farm with their own hands, they had gone back and mowed a second time along the hummix to get a little hay for their own cows.
The all-Russian Central Executive Committee refused to pardon all six of these peasants and sentenced and the sentence of execution was carried out.
Even if Stalin had killed no others, I believe he deserved to be drawn and cordured just for the wise lives of those six peasants.
So there you go.
You already harvested all the grain you can, and then you go out, you do another run to get a little bit of hay for your own cows, and they kill you.
During those two years of 1937 and 1938, a half million political prisoners had been shot throughout the Soviet Union and 480,000 habitual thieves in addition.
So we're talking execution on just a mass scale.
That's two years, a million, just rattled off.
Three, a million.
Back to the book, and almost always a person obediently allows himself to be killed.
Why is it that the death penalty has such a hypnotic effect? Those pardoned recall hardly anyone in their cell who offered any resistance.
Does hope lend strength or does it weaken a man?
That's a good question, isn't it? Does hope lend strength or does it weaken a man?
You had a talk that I witnessed recently, and you mentioned this something you just sort of mentioned for the first time that I heard,
where you were talking about hell week when you said that they'd say, hey, you don't get much sleep right now.
Oh yeah, and they say, okay, now we're going to give you guys a break, you know, six hours sleep.
Yeah, yeah, no, they'd say something like, hey, look, your hell week has been extra hard, and we went too hard on you by accident,
and the water was colder than normal.
So what we're going to do is we're going to give you guys, we don't normally do this, we're going to give you guys an eight hour recovery period.
Yeah, so go get put on warm clothes, you know, you're going to go in the barracks.
You're not going to go in the tents, you're going to go in your barracks, put in your dry clothes, and get in your beds,
and you guys will wake you up in eight hours, but we need to do a little training pause right now.
Yeah, and then, and then they put you, and then they do it, and then they put you in there, and you can all dry, and then they put you in your bed, and then it sounds.
And then 20 minutes later, they come in with machine guns, and they wake you up and they go get this or again.
And you do it, and that's one of the things that gets a lot of people to quit.
Yeah.
It gets a lot of people to quit.
Right, so that's kind of the point where, yeah, the hope can jam you up.
Oh yeah.
Were that hope, you know, like, oh, I can't believe.
And then when it's taken away from you real quick, or something like that.
Oh, yeah, well, this is a great question because think if, okay, if you're in a situation where you could live or die, right?
There's times where, hey, if I'm going to die, it makes me stronger like, yeah, I'm going to go out hard.
Whenever, yeah, but also, like, if I can hope I can live, then that can make you like, like, fight a little bit longer.
Right.
Hope of survival.
Yeah.
So this hope, lens strength, or does it?
We can imagine there's different cases where it does different things to you.
Yeah.
Depends on what kind of strength to, I feel like, I don't know, hope of what to do in a life or life.
It's different, life and death because, you know, death, that's the end of everything.
That's like, you know, but like, yeah, but think about this situation.
You're, this is a talk about death.
Like, you're going to be executed.
So let me ask you this.
So you're going to be executed.
But there's, if there's a little bit of hope that, oh, maybe the sentence will get overturned.
Or maybe I'll get pushed down the road or maybe they'll do an amnesty and I'll get out.
That's hope, right?
So that might weaken you.
Right.
Because if you're like, look, I'm getting executed.
And I don't care. And you know what, when that guard comes in here, it's not to get some of my buddies and we're going to get after it.
Oh, yeah.
Right. So that's going to make you stronger.
So hope might not necessarily be a good thing.
I mean, you know, if you ever encountered someone that I've had no hope, they can be very scary individuals.
Because they don't care if they live or die.
They don't think to lose.
Nothing to lose. Yes.
Nothing to lose.
You ever see a sports game where it can go like a team gets to go.
It can go like a team gets a good lead.
And then they just start taking risks and they start dominating.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, it can happen where they get started in cocky.
Right.
But like you can see a sports game where if it happens in fights, it happens in amnesty fights.
Yeah.
I start getting the upper hand.
It happens in Gigietsu.
I take a little bit more risk.
But the risk as long as the risk pay off.
That now all some in your, if you and I are rolling, I take a little risk.
Like I go for the take down. Right.
I'm feeling cocky. Go for the take down.
Yeah.
I get the take down.
Right.
Now all of a sudden your, your hope goes down.
Yeah.
Right.
And mine's going up.
You're more and more. Yeah.
But if you're really tired and the rounds almost over and you already lost.
And now you're just like, well, I got no hope.
I'm just going to try for an arm lock.
You might get it.
Yeah.
And that's what I was going to say to us like man, it's on both sides.
So it just depends.
Both really the answers book because like look, MMM analogy. Good one.
My opinion to where let's say I'm down as a football team as a whatever.
You start throwing Hail Mary's doing that kind of stuff.
You know, it's like you have kind of less hope.
We're going to lose anyway. Nothing will lose situation.
So it does give you strength in that way.
But at the same time, if you weigh ahead, yeah,
I can take my risk. I'll put my second string guys in there.
Give them some wraps.
Whatever.
Because if, you know, if the if the risk doesn't pay off, whatever.
We're still ahead.
So we're, you know, man, I don't know.
Yeah, just he can.
You know what you, you know, I think the thing is here,
you got to pay attention as a human to what the hope is doing to you.
Right?
It's just get this good lesson learned to what is the hope doing.
Because it happens in your life, too, right?
Like maybe you're like, I got a job and you're like, like, I might get that promotion.
So I'm just going to stick it out.
Yeah.
You're going to stick it out a little bit longer.
And then, but whereas if you're like, hey, you're not getting promoted, you be like, all right.
You don't want to do something to get my resume together.
I'm going to get my act together.
I'm going to put that word if you have hope it makes you a little weaker.
Yeah.
So you got to pay attention to it.
But it could make you stronger though.
You'd be like, oh, I might get the promotion.
So I'm going to do something to work.
All right, right?
You've got to pay attention to what the hope is doing to you.
That's what you got to do.
Yeah.
That's great.
Hope isn't always good.
It's not bad.
It's not good.
You get to figure out.
You got to monitor your hope.
Don't get your hopes up.
Yeah.
That kind of situation.
I go.
You had to monitor that hope.
Oh, man.
There you go.
There continues on.
Here we go.
If the condemned men in every cell had ganked up on the executioners as they came in and
choked them.
Wouldn't this have ended executioners sooner than the appeals to the all Russian central
executive committee?
When one is already on the edge of the grave, why not resist?
But wasn't everything for doomed anyway from the moment of arrest.
And all the arrested crawled along the path of hope on their knees as if their legs had
been amputated.
Monitor your hope.
Monitor it all.
He describes sort of death row in one of the prisons.
There were four death cells in this prison in the same corridor as the juvenile cells
and the hospital cells.
Death cells had two doors.
The customary wouldn't door with a people and door made of iron grading.
Each door had two locks.
And one jailer had the block supervisor.
Each had a key.
One jailer and if the block supervisor each had a key to a different one, so the doors could only be opened by the two together.
Cell 43 was on the other side of a wall of the interrogator's office.
And at night while the condemned men were waiting to be executed, their ears were tormented by the screams of prisoners being tortured.
And that's what we're talking about.
From our experience in the past and our literature of the past, we have derived a naive faith in the power of a hunger strike.
But the hunger strike is purely a moral weapon.
It presupposes that the jailer has not entirely lost his conscience.
Or that the jailer is afraid of public opinion.
Only in such circumstances can it be effective.
So yeah, so he, President, didn't care.
Say whatever you want.
We control the press.
Oh, and by the way, you think I'm going to feel guilty that you're starving?
No, I'm not a driver.
Oh, and by the way, if I do feel like I want to make you live, guess what they did.
Forced artificial feeding.
This method was adapted without any question from the experience with wild animals in captivity.
Artificial feeding has much in common with rape.
And that's what it really is for big men, hurl themselves on one week being in the private of its one introduction.
They only need to do it once and what happens to it next is not important.
The element of rape in here's in the violation of the victims will.
It's not going to be the way you want it, but the way I want it.
Lie down and submit.
They pry open the mouth with a flat disk, then broaden the crack between the jaw and insert a tube, swallow it.
And if you don't swallow it, they shove it down farther anyway, and then pour liquified food right down the esophagus.
And then they massage the stomach to prevent the prisoner from resorting to vomiting.
The sensation is one of being morally defiled.
And this is, it's the closing of this part of the book.
We no longer know the answer to the question, is the soul of a person in the new type prison?
In the special purpose prison, purified or does it perish once and for all?
If the first thing you see each and every morning is the eyes of your cellmate who is gone insane,
how then shall you save yourself during the coming day?
And like I said, that's, I'll take that as a spot to close out that part one of this book about the Gulag.
And I think that is a question that we can ask ourselves a lot in our current world.
But how can we save ourselves every day when you look around at the world?
When it looks, sometimes the world is going insane. When people are going crazy, you have to kind of work to save yourself every day.
You have to pull yourself back into sanity and back onto the path and not allow yourself to become a prisoner of your own personal Gulag.
And these Gulags, these Soviet Gulags, if you want to build your own personal Gulag in your life, you do it the same way that the Soviets did it.
You do it with lies.
Lies on top of lies. When the Soviets lied on top of lies to build these Gulags in your life, if you lie to yourself, if you allow that to happen and you put lies on top of lies, you will build yourself your own personal Gulag.
So don't allow it. Don't lie to yourself.
And instead, keep yourself out of that prison.
And keep yourself free by telling yourself the truth.
And I think that's, oh, I've got fort tonight and I know echo you've got some ways that we can kind of help.
Keep ourselves free by staying on the path.
Sure, on top of telling the truth, on top of telling the truth, which is where.
Yeah. Kind of the key, right? The key element.
It's a key element for sure.
Still kind of tripping on the hope thing, you know, if that gives you strength or takes it from you, right? That's all you put it or that's all you put it, right?
It takes it from you.
I was, I was talking to Dakota, the other night, and we were talking about after the big event, you know, where he lost his team and all that.
And we just talked a little bit more detail about, if you remember in the book a few days later, he goes on another operation. That's just as crazy.
Or maybe not just as crazy, but it's like, it's really bad.
And he was doing some definitely some crazy things and putting, what's the military term that we say?
He was going above and beyond the Call of Duty and putting himself at great risk.
And I said to him, you know, we were kind of like, you know, Dakota's so good to go and so awesome.
And we were just like laughing. And I was like, you didn't, I mean at that point, I'm like, you just, you know, you lost your whole team.
I go, you didn't care if you lived or died, he goes, not at all.
And so in that situation, like he had no hope at that moment in time.
And guess what he did? Whatever he had to do. He's like, oh, I got to go save the, I'm going to go run across open field, whether it was machine gun fire coming cool, I'll go.
Oh, wait, I knew to do it again, I'll go again. Oh, I knew to do it again, I'll go again.
Yeah. Because he didn't have hope and in fact, that he didn't have hope gave him strength at that moment.
Yeah.
You know, at that moment, but if you talk to him now, it's reversed. He's got his kids, got his little daughters.
Yeah. You know what I mean? He's got like hope for the future.
Yeah.
And that's what makes him strong right now.
So keep him strong.
Yeah. So I mean, what's the formula, right? And I mean, it's the formula is monitor your home.
That's the formula.
And it depends on who you are, right? Because they consider yourself, let's say, I'll hope it's lost.
You know, I got to, you know, go across do all these crazy things above and beyond.
I could be, if I have a different attitude, I could be like, why, why fight it kind of thing,
but death, impending doom, you know, just kind of take its course kind of thing.
Right? I mean, could, yeah.
That could be disregard for his own safety. That's the phrase I was looking for.
Yeah.
It's a complete disregard for his own safety.
But that's like a specific approach. You know, that's like a different attitude.
You know, like some people, they'll be like, oh, I'm going to, you know, like, I'm doomed anyway.
So why fight it?
Yeah.
Right.
Like I'm doomed.
So I'm going to just start swinging for the person.
But check this out.
You could also be like, I hope I can make it out of here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to hide right here and do anything.
Yeah.
So that's the same, just like the reverse.
It's the reverse.
So it's like, and then if you're in a bad situation and you're like, well, I hope I can make it.
I've got hope that I can live through this situation.
So I'm just going to get down.
I'm just going to hide.
I'm going to get behind this little rock outcropping and hope this goes away.
Right.
Hope they don't see me.
Hope, you know, the whole, hope, hope.
Yeah.
That's the example of the whole.
And guess what happens when you do that?
Let me maneuver something. You and you get killed.
Whereas if you go like, you know what?
I'm going out.
I have no hope.
I'm going to attack.
But by the way, the enemy who's hoping they can take you and hoping that you're going to stay there.
When you, when you do something that they didn't hope for, that's going to smack them in the face.
Yeah.
But like, if, but then on the, on the reverse side of that, right, let's say you have a different attitude.
Even though you have hope, right, if all is lost, do you think,
but I have this little shred of hope, so I'm just going to go throw a hail, Mary.
Yeah.
That's hope.
Really, rather than just like, covering in the corner and dying or whatever.
Yes, but you wouldn't be throwing a hail, Mary, unless that was the only way.
Like, that was your only hope shred of hope.
That was your only hope.
That's what I'm saying.
Like, if you have two different approaches, you know,
monitor your hope at the end of the day.
You kind of got to monitor your hope.
I've got to make sure that what?
Because there's, you got to be careful too, because sometimes, you know,
if you have no hope, right, if you out, well, I have no hope.
So I'm just, because you could do that, right,
let's say you're in a bad situation, a combat situation.
Hey, I got no hope, so I'm just going to lay here and like,
I guess that's what you were saying.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I got no hope, so I'm just going to lay here.
Yeah.
Instead of, hey, I got no hope, so I'm just going to go out,
you know, blaze and glory.
Let's get something.
Yeah.
Go down this way.
So if you monitor it, you go wait a second.
I have no hope.
Okay, I'm going to at least go out hard.
I'm going to go get some.
Add a minimum, right?
I'm going to take some people with me.
Bad guys.
Yeah.
Save some of my good guys.
If I can do that.
Yeah, that's good.
As opposed to having no hope, we're doomed.
Yeah.
Monitor your hope.
Remember the, remember Shawshank redemption?
Yes, I have seen them.
Remember he said that where he was like, hey,
the guy read market agreement.
He's saying, hey, don't be careful with that.
Hope thing.
It'll drive you insane or something like that.
Like if you hope you'll get out or you hope you're going to get part
into whatever his situation was.
So it's like, yeah, if you hope you'll get part in and you hold onto that
hope, but you get let down, it'll create, you know, it'll drive you insane.
And if you don't have hope in that, this, the what he's
implying, if you don't have hope, you just it basically
accept your imprisonment so you can focus on or concentrate on living prison life,
you know, the way it needs to be lived.
So let's be.
Do the best you can there.
Yeah, like don't have these hopes of the outside because it'll make you crazy.
That could be decent advice in a situation like that.
Yeah, one of those deals that monitor your hope is what he was saying.
That's what he was saying.
Yeah, he was saying monitor your hope.
Because right, if you have no hope, you can be like, well,
I'm just going to just going to kill myself.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, like a monitor.
No, you got a monitor in the prison.
Right.
And you got to make sure that you're not putting yourself in a personal prison.
Yeah.
Which, which that to me, this idea, if you think about the bad situations in your life,
most of them are predicated on you lying to yourself about something.
Yeah.
Yeah, you're every day ones for sure.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
It's weird.
Every time you, like, you say something like that, how are we trying to think of some
rebuttal?
You know, it's weird.
I feel like I'm doing that.
But yeah, no, you're right.
Yeah.
I think so.
But you just tell these little lies.
Yeah.
Lies on top of lies.
And what's, what I think what happens with lies on top of lies is they become easier
and easier to believe.
Oh, yeah.
Like once you believe one of your own lies, then you believe three, then you believe
ten, then you believe a hundred.
Yeah, you know what the feeling is?
The feeling is you lied to yourself, right?
And or you could a lot of times lying to yourself isn't like, hey, I'm tall.
When you're not tall, it's not that.
It's like, it's more of a not admitting certain things.
That's more of what it is.
You know, like when you saw how you guys say, you say, take a good hard look at yourself
and then don't lie to yourself.
Right.
So it's usually when you lie to yourself in the mirror, it's like, oh, I won't admit that.
I won't admit that to myself that I need this, right?
Yeah.
Whatever.
That's how the lie comes, you know, it's lie by omission.
Yeah, but then the more you do it.
Yeah, but then you, and then you live to see another day, hello, it's a miracle.
So it must kind of be true.
It must not be that big of a deal, my whatever.
You know, my donuts that I eat every morning for breakfast must not be.
I'm still here.
Close your eyes.
This seems safe.
Yeah.
So it is so, it no one's bringing it up.
No one's bringing it up to me kind of thing.
It's not really, it's not like pulling at me that much.
So it gets easier and easier to kind of, it's almost like sweeping it under the rug kind of thing.
You know, meanwhile it's a fast-streaming, and fast-streaming.
Oh, she's going to deduct your cholesterol, it's all high or whatever.
So you'm saying, that's how it'll jam you up.
Don't lie to yourself.
You know what else is it, prison?
Being on bottom stuck in your side control.
Indue to prison.
So, and here's the weird thing when you, when you said that,
I did think of this, where if I have, and it's, I don't even know if I'd call it hope.
Like, if I want to be out, like if I want to escape,
not that I want to do the escape or take escape tight actions,
it's just, I don't want to be there.
I'll like it way less, like I won't.
I won't be able to deal with it as much as if I say, okay.
I'm here, it's like accepting that I'm on the same side control, you know?
And I have to take action here.
My hope is here, not outside there, so you have to accept the situation that you're in.
Yes.
Can't lie to yourself.
A little person.
Anyway, I think that's what Morgan Freeman was talking about, by the way.
Nonetheless, it's been a side control.
That's GG2.
It's been a GG2.
You're going to need a G if you're doing GG2 indeed.
Yeah.
We're on the path.
We're talking about the path right now, right?
Support yourself in this way by saying in the path starting GG2.
If you haven't already, a lot of people starting GG2.
A lot more people.
Yeah.
Starting GG2.
It's a getting popular.
Very popular.
And for good reason too, I mean, shoot.
So when you get a G, and a rashguard, get an origin G.
No question.
Oh, you don't want to agree with me.
Okay, I agree with you on a person.
That's what I thought.
Anyway, good.
Origin main.com.
Yeah.
I guess the look that I was giving you is sort of the fact that we just glossed
over the fact that these G's are made 100% in America.
You're even talking about that.
Yeah.
Yeah, maybe I should talk about that.
Well, last time you did, you talked about the looms and all that stuff.
Today you're just like, hey, the best G's.
Which I guess that's cool.
Yeah.
They are.
All is true for sure.
100%.
Yeah.
And you know what?
I'm just about to say this, but I remember that I do talk about this all the time.
On air and off air that it is cool.
It kind of like how Pete guys how they brought back like.
The actual making of the G for example.
Yeah.
Like that's a thing now.
It's like cool now.
Yeah.
No one cared about how your G was stitched and like, no.
I'm not cared about that stuff.
Even if they knew the Pearl competitions.
I last time I was there was I got like legit.
Explonation of things from Pete because Pete and I were just like,
it's 10 o'clock at night.
We've been working for eight days straight and we're just in there getting.
And I'm asking pointed questions about stuff about how this thing gets.
You know what I mean?
If I want to understand it.
Yeah.
There's a lot of those guys that had to learn a lot of stuff.
Bro, you can't even.
It's I think it's been five years, six years.
The amount of information that had to be learned from.
From no, from nothing.
No, from trial and error.
It's a funny, ask Pete that can stuff like, you can't exhaust Pete.
Oh no, that's stupid.
Oh yeah, you see the twinkle in his eye.
Yeah.
You know, he wants to explain it.
He's all, oh, I was concerned.
I was boring.
You guys with it.
No, man.
Stay off to that for sure.
But yeah.
Origin G 100% origin raskard 100% supplements to fire the way.
Yeah.
And I wasn't not.
I wouldn't come myself anti supplement.
I'm not going to say that.
But it wasn't into supplements that much before.
Now I am because you know when you come across the one that actually works.
That's the thing, you know, helping the plenty of people there or plenty of supplements.
It's they sort of rely.
Maybe not 100% maybe 100% but they rely on the placebo effect.
So when you have supplements like these that actually work, you become a supplement person.
Yeah.
So if you want to have joint warfare for your joints, obviously,
Criolloial for your life, like,
including your joints, including your just overall health discipline.
For when you got to get that workout and there's discipline drink and there's discipline.
Go pills go go and then it was milk.
You had some kind of mocks in there.
You're going on.
Yeah.
Technically it was warrior kid mocks last night.
We go to.
Okay.
There's this light show. Christmas light show.
You know, the certain neighbors that I guess this one is like super famous.
Oh, like shoot tracers.
No.
In a loom girl.
No, but no, right.
Yeah.
It's called the, I think ballardo.
I think it's called ballardo light show.
It's like, you know, Christmas lights is how they do everything.
It has a whole show.
People, you know, so we go and, you know, my wife.
She likes the Christmas spirit.
Get all cozy, right?
It's kind of cold there now.
California cold.
I dig it.
No offense.
Iowa.
Maine.
No offense.
But California cold.
We'll say you can see your breath.
That's something.
You're talking 40 49 degrees.
50.
Yeah.
So why?
Like in like Michigan or Minnesota.
It's 54 below in Montana.
It's 54 below zero.
So anyways, continue.
A little bit different.
Sure.
But still.
But for the Charles family.
You want to be a little silly.
Up according to my wife, it warranted maybe a hot chocolate scenario.
So look, this is where we need to driver.
It's kind of close amounts.
We'll drive around.
We'll look at all the nice lights.
We'll drink our chocolate and the car will bring the kid to be fun.
You can get out.
So everyone's busing out their hot chocolate.
Of course what, what do you think my hot chocolate was?
Yeah.
Oh, I know what it was.
That's the warrior kid.
Moke hot chocolate.
I even put some whipped cream on the.
Oh, yeah.
It's nice.
Actually, it was surprisingly nice.
Because they had that well, I was this is why.
Usually I drink the regular moke under different circumstances.
This is like, oh, milkshake.
Boom.
You know, but you get to get considered as consider where I was.
I had two two kids and one wife always regular hot chocolate.
Mairman out of head marshmallows in it.
Either way, regular hot chocolate.
And me, I'm with the, okay, I'm going to stick with the protein.
You were a kid.
So you didn't get your kids didn't have night of me.
That's, that's messed up.
Here's the thing.
Yeah, you kids.
Yeah.
Oh, I was younger.
I was gunna, but we're kind of in a hurry.
So, and I made the like the game time.
Life, it was already made.
I'm not going to be like, hey, you know.
Either way, actually, that's a good point next time.
100%.
Unless I heated up, taste the same.
Yeah.
Literally taste the same.
Same is right.
How chocolate.
So anyways, that's warrior kid.
I was like, I was like, oh, cool.
I was like, anybody had it?
No, like one of those metal water bottle looking thing.
And I go, what did you mix it with?
And he's like water and I go broke.
You got to get milk in there.
And he goes really?
And I go, yeah.
I go almond milk, coconut milk.
What other kind of milk, are there?
almond milk, coconut milk.
I said, just get some acid or home milk.
Just milk or skim milk.
Whatever.
And then I said, I said, just get some acid or home milk.
Just milk or skim milk.
Whatever.
I saw him yesterday.
He said, bro.
Yeah.
You were even kidding.
And I'm like, he was no home drink in it all the time.
And I go, yeah, I know.
And he was actually telling me he liked it.
Just as his water, which I can't, I can't, I'm not going to make that claim
because I don't believe it.
Right?
I'm not saying like, hey, if you drink with water, it's going to be great.
If you drink with water, it's okay.
It's like, like I said before, drink with water.
It's like a ham sandwich.
Like, it's not, if you drink it with milk, it's like prime rib.
Yeah.
It's like a rib.
I don't know what he was doing.
I know he's exact scenario and I wasn't even there.
I don't even know what you're talking to him.
He's used to drinking protein, drink shakes in the shaker.
You know, after you live, make someone just throw it in with water.
Whatever.
That's what he's doing.
Yeah, yeah.
Put the tube open it with an open mouth with it.
Yes, get a scammer tube down your soft against to get your protein.
You don't need to do that with milk.
There's no forced feeding.
But that's what I'm saying.
So now he mixed it same deal, same routine.
But now we got the milk, taste better, cool.
Put it in.
Oh yeah, right?
So the guy who wears jacco, let me find the middle kind of thing.
And you're like, bro, you're not even on the, you are on the
Moketrain fully, but man, you could be up here in first class.
You're saying rather than in a Kabu,
I don't know, I'm not sure.
I'm sure.
Man.
Either way.
Just get on it.
Get all the stuff, or do me.com.
Also, we have a store.
We have a store.
And jacco store.com.
This is where you can get more rashguards for jitsu approved.
By the way, 100% approved.
This is more, you know, representing the path directly.
When those rashguards.
Anyway, some good rashguards.
Got to share it on there.
Have some beanies, hoodies, legit hoodies.
And yeah, go to jacco store.com.
And you also jacco white tea, which yes,
he's a funny enough, my wife is, she's on.
Is there a jacco white tea train?
This is not.
But if there was, she would be the engineer.
Oh, that one.
And she'll even say, I'm about to get after it, right?
First.
Yeah, I guess this is why you can't create viral marketing.
Right?
You can't be like, hey, let's come up with a viral thing for a jacco white tea.
Hey, get on the jacco white tea train.
Like that doesn't work.
Sure.
Yeah, I guess no.
Where's malt train?
100%.
Well, the malt train showed it just formulated itself.
That's what I mean.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It just, it pre-existed in some, you know,
a person that went in arrived here.
It was like, you too, get off.
Oh, check.
Anyway, jacco white tea.
Yes, deadlift 8,000 pounds.
Whatever.
I've been deadlifting 8,000 pounds for a long time already.
So that is less exciting than it's going to be for the, you know,
the people who just start just saying, but yeah.
Sure.
Somebody asked you a deadlift 1,600 pounds if you, if you drink two cans.
Oh, no, you just, yeah.
Yeah.
I like to say this, but no.
That's what I've done in the work that way.
Yeah, no.
Exactly.
Right.
Nonetheless, in cans and in jacco white tea,
yeah, it just prefer the cans personally, but the dry taste.
It's good, too.
For sure.
Available on Amazon and at the jacco store, right?
Yes, sir.
Dot com.
Cool.
Kind of everywhere.
Just go online.
Jacco white tea, boom, writing your mailbox.
Also, subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already.
On Google.
Whatever.
Play.
Wherever you get podcasts.
Yeah.
Hey, check out the Warrior Kid podcast.
If you got kids or even if you don't have kids,
if you know kids getting the Warrior Kid podcast,
I have a couple more episodes coming out this week of the Warrior Kid podcast.
So you can get some of that.
Also, you can get that Warrior Kid soap from Irish Oaks Ranch,
made by an actual Warrior Kid named Aiden who makes it with goat milk.
Yeah.
So if you want to get some soap, so you can follow his motto,
which is stay clean.
And then YouTube.
Subscribe to YouTube if you want to see what echo Charles looks like.
Sure.
If you want to see what a guest looks like.
If you want to see the look on echo's face when I say something that he doesn't agree with.
Or if you want to see the look on my face when he says something.
That was one of the funniest outtakes was he talking.
And then you'd, but you were just showing my face just like so bored and annoyed and just.
There's a few, those, there's one where I was talking about justifying,
like not doing squats or something.
Or whatever and you're just like this.
I thought the funny thing was when you were talking about something
and then alien thing.
Oh, yeah.
You just show my face and I'm just looking at you like,
like please get the hint that my face right now means stop.
But you were actually really nice about that.
I'm a generally nice person.
Yeah, that's your own pretty nice person.
Well, sometimes you take advantage of that with stories that impinge on my whole situation.
Anyway, psychological warfare, which that's what that is by the way.
When you're just looking at me, not yawning, nothing like that just looking at like it's psychological.
It's psychological up communication.
Anyway, the real psychological warfare is an album with tracks of Jockel.
On each track telling you how to overcome your moments of weakness that may, may creep into your whole scenario in life when you're on the path.
You can get that on iTunes, Google Play and B3 platform or whatever.
You know what, I said we're going to get psychological warfare to out by Christmas.
Not going to happen.
Little delay if you still have some requests of an area of weakness.
And you want us to make a psychological warfare tracks that you can crush and destroy that weakness.
Then just let us know via the usual means.
Yes.
Yeah, online.
Cool.
Yeah, all your excuses are lies.
By the way, that's the working title.
Also, very up your workout.
I was going to do a video today.
We'll work out video of yourself.
Yep.
And I was going to do a kettlebell typical kettlebell scenario.
And I was just going to start doing curls with it.
But, but I decided against it because it's kind of disrespectful to the people.
I just got a good idea.
You should do a workout video where you just have a barbell kettlebell, a dumbbell, a sandbag, and everything.
You just do a curl.
Yeah.
That was essentially the idea.
It's kind of disrespectful.
Anyway, my point there being what it reminded me of is that the curl.
It was going to be like really good like produced video.
Not necessarily with a good camera, nothing like that.
But just like I'm just going to frame it good.
And it is going to be using the on a kettlebell, the sideclubs, whatever.
The on the last decided against it because it's going to be kind of disrespectful because that's not what kettlebell is for.
Obviously.
But if you do get kettlebell, even if it's funny, it still disrespectful.
I just want it felt like at the time, but no, you're probably right.
I just time I was like, yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway, my point is even though it's a little bit beside the point, it reminded me of it.
The point is, my new point is, when you want to vary up your workout, curls, or otherwise, some people they don't even do curls.
I actually do curls.
You say do curls too.
Don't act like you don't.
No, I do.
Boom, get your stuff from on it.com slash jockel by the way kettlebell rings.
These are things that I don't do.
I do pretty much every workout pretty much.
But this is these are ones that I strongly recommend to incorporate rings.
And this last thing you can do on rings by the way.
Pushups, pull ups, and the planks, whatever.
Those are the tips.
Dips, yeah.
I don't do them as much, but the planks for sure.
You don't do dips.
Not on the rings.
No why?
I don't know.
I just don't know.
Okay, it's dome on the bar.
Not on the last.
Good job.
These are these dang bro.
Those are a lot of heat right there for no dips on the rings.
Anyway, get them at on it.
Good stuff on there.
Very up the workout.
Incorporate new things in the workout.
Yeah, man.
It's good.
Mikey in the dragons.
Is out.
It is in stock fully.
I'm sorry that it took a little late.
Everyone should have gotten it by your should get it by Christmas.
If you ordered it reasonably before Christmas, you should have it because we made it.
We did it.
Everyone that ordered it.
We got an Amazon fulfilled.
So I appreciate everyone that ordered it.
It is now fully in stock.
We should not run out again.
Well, if you have Amazon Prime, that's like two days, right?
Yes.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know when.
Yeah, I don't know when.
I don't know when you've got the new items for Amazon to get it shipped in time.
Yeah.
But yeah, those are in the distribution centers around the country with Amazon Prime right now.
So if you haven't gotten Mikey in the dragons for every kid that you know, then you can get it done right now.
We got a lot of copies ready to roll.
So get it for your kids.
Get it for your neighbors kids.
Get it for your library.
Whatever.
You can also get the way of the Warrior Kid books.
Way of the Warrior Kid and Mark's mission.
If you want your kids or kids.
kids you know to actually have a good life. This is a great way to start them off
actually having a good life. Another, this is a holiday gift if there ever
one was one. Displung equals freedom, I need to post that video actually. I'll post
that video. Repost. Oh, yeah, yeah. Get that video posted. But yeah, because
that's a good gift to give anyone that needs to be on the first and the
one. If you want to get the audio version of that, it's not on
audible. It's on iTunes Amazon, use a Google play at SETRA,
extreme ownership. Of course, dichotomy leadership possibly better than
extreme ownership. I've gotten like four last four people I talked to. I was like,
no, possibly. They're like, no, it's definitely better. And that's kind of weird.
Right? Yes, is that. Yeah. Well, you guys, you guys might be going to
go flare up. You know what I mean? Maybe, but I don't really get that from what
you just said right now. I, here's my hypothesis. The people who are saying
that dichotomy leadership is better than extreme ownership, better than
extreme ownership, or people who read extreme ownership. And then we're like,
yeah, you know, hell, yeah, I'm an extreme ownership. And then they go in
and they're like, okay, it's like, you know, like, I made the analogy of the
guy on major league, right? The picture. He had all this power. But he
have any control. dichotomy leadership comes in. Kism that control that
they wish that they had. Yeah, they didn't even know they didn't have it. They thought
the extreme ownership of the whole thing. A seal buddy of mine came over to my
house the other day. And he brought 20 copies of extreme ownership. His wife
wanted to give is giving them to her team in company. And he goes, yeah, you
know, I'm giving you my wife really want to skip. And she's read it. She loves
it. And then he goes, but she's kind of a bull in a China shop. Yes. And I was like,
okay, cool. So guess what I did? I was like, hey, let me give a little
sum for your wife's Christmas present. Give her a little Christmas present.
You know, we have a little something called dichotomy leadership. Because that's the
situation you're talking about. You know what, though, it's like her
fixed situation. Like you think, I'm going to go take ownership. And it's like,
well, or even like everyone's going to read this book. It's like, okay,
let's do a little dichotomy leadership. Let's make sure we're balanced. Yeah,
actually though, you know what I just thought of right now. I got it. I got to take it back.
Maybe, maybe not. Maybe I'm right. Maybe I'm not with that whole analogy. But, you know,
what, though? What's more important? Power or or or or what he'll act your seal, whatever.
Right? Because it's kind of the same thing. Extreme ownership is like, oh, here's
what you do full speed. This is what you do. And then the dichotomy is kind of the control
element. What's more important? Control or speed? It's the same. Yeah. Control or part.
Yes, are you a bleak control? They're both important. I think so too. Yeah. At the end of the day,
that's I think that's the scenario though. Well, you think you won't have, you won't have anything
to balance if you don't understand the fundamental principles, combat leadership. That's true. Right. So yeah,
yeah, that's true. And just the way it's got to be. Yeah. And yeah, so get those books. Good
Christmas presents. So I'm the worst gift giver. Yeah, you're not very good to write. Let me
let me take it back. If I get you a gift, which is not likely, it'll be great. But it's a slim chance
you're getting one. Yeah. How many gifts have you gotten from me? Two. What I give you? Well,
one actually, a tech thing I don't think was from you. You gave me a copy of the discipline
equals freedom field manual signed like on your own. Like it wasn't like, hey, give me your
like, hey, you know, yeah, yeah. Yeah. For paper here is free. Okay. That was cool. What else? Nice. It's
cool because I've written six books. I'm giving you one. Yeah. You're back in about average. Well,
20% of my time. You gave my daughter one. That's your job. Yeah. Exactly. Right. Now me,
with different, no, you gave me something. I think it was like a shirt or something. Then I found out
like later that day that it wasn't for me. It knows from a sound. So you're just a message. Yeah,
just giving to you. So you know, like, to one gift. Yeah, thanks for that. By the way,
check. Also, we got Asheline front. That's my leadership consultancy. And what we do is go into
companies and solve problems through leadership. Go to echelonfront.com. If you want to work with
me and my team, which is Lake Babin, JP to Nell Dave Burke, Flynn, Cochrane, Mike's Riley, Mike
Bima. Also, we got the master coming up. It is live for registration right now. Chicago, Denver,
and Sydney, Australia. Go to extremownership.com right now. If you want to come,
Dave, I also about this one is going to actually, we open registration. It's already like these
going to sell it. Love faster. Yeah. For whatever reason. Yeah. Interesting, how you're we're going to
Australia. Yeah. Like, because a lot of people were saying, you know, you just, for some reason, I
went to Brisbane, Australia. Yeah. And I did a book signing in Brisbane, Australia. And I announced
it on like a Wednesday or a Thursday. And that book's anyway on Friday. And I showed up. And there was
hundreds and hundreds of people there. Yeah. I was super stoked about that. And it's showed that
there was a lot of people that were supporting. And of course, we got EF Overwatch, which is
us connecting proven leaders from spec ops and combat aviation communities with companies in the
civil inspector that need experience, the leaders to step up and lead inside their organizations.
So go to EF Overwatch and fill out the information there. Either as a town and seeker or a career
seeker, we're waiting to link you guys up. You know, speaking of events, we are doing a live
event. We are doing a live event. New York City, January 9th, details to be announced. But if you
want to come, it's an a theater. And we're going to record a podcast live in the theater. And then
we're going to do Q&A live, I think. Or maybe I'll send like questions from the group. Yeah. Like the
old school. Old school. Old school. And half of that. So that's what we're going to do. Something like
that. Anyways, calendar yourself. January 9th, New York City. If you're in that area, or you
want to come hang out, coming get some. We will see you there. And if you want to link up with us,
virtually, we are pretty readily available on the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram and on Facebook.
Keep on. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Whilling. And thanks to all the military
personnel out there that are providing us with this way of life. And you can see how bad life can
get when you read a book like the Gulagakra Pelago. Also, thanks to police and law enforcement
firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, correctional officers, border patrol, and all first responders
for protecting this way of life that we have here at home. And to everyone else out there, just
remember that this nightmare of the Gulags started when people kept quiet on a large scale.
And on a small scale, don't let that happen on a large scale and don't let it happen to you.
Resist, that whole opening chapter about now resisting, don't let that happen, resist, resist,
the weakness, resist the lies, resist the things in your life that will turn you into a prisoner
and into a slave. And you do that by going out there every day and getting after it.
And until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.